---
layout: post
title: <span style="color:#404040"> Accepted - The genomic basis of host and vector specificity in non-pathogenic trypanosomatids </span>
subtitle: <span style="color:#404040"> Published in Biology Open </span>
gh-repo: goldrieve
cover-img: /assets/img/Screenshot%202022-04-12%20at%2018.10.14.png
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/Unknown.jpeg
share-img: /assets/img/Unknown.jpeg
gh-badge: [star, follow]
tags: [genome sequencing]
comments: true
---

## Buzzing to have our manuscript accepted for publication in [Biology Open](https://journals.biologists.com/bio/article/doi/10.1242/bio.059237/274958).

Here is a quick summary of the work!

_Trypanosoma theileri_ (_T. theileri_) is a parasite which infects cattle and is transmitted by tabanid flies. _T. theileri_ does not harm its host and apparently avoids the host’s immune system via a group of proteins which coat the surface of the parasite cell. As the tabanid fly only intermittently feeds on cattle, it is possible that the protein-covered cell surface coat enables a longer infection time in cattle which would increase the chance of _T. theileri_ being transmitted between cattle. _Trypanosoma melophagium_ is closely related to _T. theileri_ but infects sheep and is transmitted by the sheep ked, which resembles a tick but is actually a wingless fly. Keds spend their whole life attached to sheep, providing many opportunities to transmit _T. melophagium_. We compared the genetic components of _T. theileri_ and _T. melophagium_ to look at the genetic basis of their host and vector specificity. We found that _T. melophagium_ appears to use a different protein cell surface coat to that used by _T. theileri_ to evade the host immune system. We tentatively link this differential investment to the biology of the insect vectors (tabanid fly/ sheep ked) which spend vastly different lengths of time in contact with their mammalian hosts.
