---
layout: post
title: Experimental brewing
subtitle: Fermenting an ale with wild yeast (and friends!)
gh-repo: goldrieve
cover-img: /assets/img/IMG_3026.jpg
thumbnail-img: /assets/img/IMG_3026.jpg
share-img: /assets/img/IMG_3026.jpg
gh-badge: [star, follow]
tags: [fermentation]
comments: true
---

## Can you brew a beer with a sourdough starter?

Yes!

I've always wondered, can the yeast culture I spotaneously created deal with 10 litres of concentrated malt sugar? Or is it a step too far? Even if it ferments, will the product be tasty??

So, I set up a mini homebrew experiment. I brewed 10 litres of pale ale using exceptionally boring malt (pilsner) and a very low hop quantity (citra at 60 and 30 minutes). The brew was split in half into two identical fermentors, the first was fermented with a standard neautral commerically avaialble ale yeast strain (US-05) and the second was fermented with my sourdough culture. Briefly, I siphoned off 500ml of the brew and whilst the 10 litres cooled, I made a culture of the sorudough in the 500ml of beer. This fermented for 12 hours and nicely seperated aques layer from the sourdough. I then tipped the 500ml of starter into the fermenter and left them both for 2 weeks. 

At the two week mark, both had fermnted to exactly the same sugar conent, creating ~5% beer. These were bottled and saved for two more weeks to allow them to carbonate in the bottle. 

Ok, I couldnt wait two weeks so at the one week mark, I sampled the beers. It had worked!! The sourdough made a delicious pale ale, not as crystal clear as the US-05 control, but far more flavoursome. I periodically tasted both, in the name of science, every week for two months as the yeast continued to do its work in the bottle. Whilst the US-05 control stayed fairly mellow and boring, the sourdough came alive as the wild bacteria in the sourdough started to outcompete the yeast and create an amazing saison style beer. 

I was so happy with the outcome, this is certainly the first of many. And maybe I'll wrangle myself a minION to see what strains I have in there! 

My recipe is below, lets see how it evolves.

| Statistics	| Target	|	
| -----------	| -----------	|
| ABV (%)	| 6.17		|
| OG		| 1.055		|
| FG		| 1.008        	|
|		|		|
| Volume (L)	| 26.5		|
| Mash		| 26.5		|
| Sparge	|		|
| 		| 		|
| Malt 		| (kg)      	|
| Pilsner 	| 4.989		|
| 		| 		|
| Hops 		| (g)		|
| Citra		| 14.7		|
| Citra		| 14.7		|
